The author presents an example of a mechanical systems (the PVTOL
aircraft) and a specific configuration trajectory that cannot be
represented as a trajectory of the reduced dynamics arising from a
virtual holonomic constraint (VHC).
- That's not true. It can be.

Then the author argues that the linearization of the mechanical system along this trajectory is
controllable so it is possible to locally asymptotically stabilize the trajectory.

The author then uses these conclusions to argue that the current definition of VHC in the literature is too restrictive because there
are situations like the one that he described, in which there is a stabilizable trajectory lying on a manifold that is not controlled
invariant.

Finally, the author revisits results in the literature concerning
second order differential equations with singularities to argue that
under certain special
conditions, there may still be feasible trajectories of the reduced
dynamics, even though said reduced dynamics have singularities. This is
not a contribution of the paper since the result of Theorem 1 is in the
literature.
- It is the contribution, "Theorem 1" has never been presented before.

I appreciate the analysis of the author and I understand his criticism
of the definition of VHC, but I think that the point made by the author
is confusing and it should be clarified. What exactly is the main
message of the paper?

Is the message of the paper that VHCs do not produce the universe of
all stabilizable trajectories of a mechanical system? But this was
already made clear by early work of Shiriaev and colleagues. 
* give me the reference to the work. Shiriaev is my collegue. If he wrote something, he would let me know.

Is the author then trying to reinforce the message? If so, the author should
reframe his presentation to highlight how VHCs restrict the universe of
stabilizable trajectories, and not to criticize the definition of VHC.
* I did it. Did you read the chapter III?

Or perhaps is the message of the paper that the current definition of
VHC should be changed? But then the author has the onus to present a clear and mathematically rigorous definition of
VHC.
* I've presented the changes in the concolusion.

Surprisingly, this paper does not present an alternative
definition. 
* This is incorrect. You just didn't read the paper.

If I try to reverse engineer the definition of VHC that the author has
in mind I get genuinely confused. The terminology virtual holonomic
constraint should suggest that a VHC should mimic a standard holonomic
constraint in mechanics. Otherwise, why call it a virtual holonomic
constraint?
* No, it should not. The abbreviation was invented 30 years ago by the 
people who didn't expect how broad the concept can be.

A standard holonomic constraint, h(q)=0, defines an invariant
set in the state space of the mechanical system with the property that
any initial condition such that the initial configuration satisfies the
constraint and the initial velocity is tangent to it, gives a solution
satisfying the constraint at all time.
* This is incorrect. The reader does not know what holonomic constraints are, he mismatches with non-holonomic constraints.

In other words, if q(t) is a configuration trajectory satisfying the holonomic constraint, the initial condition
(q(0), \lambda*\dot q(0)) will produce another solution satisfying the constraint for any scalar lambda. 
* This is not related to the discussion.

For example, a train is constrained to stay on a rail, but there no
constraint on the initial tangential velocity to the rail. 
* Good bye.

A second important property of holonomic constraints in Mechanics is
that they produce a well-defined reduced dynamical system representing
the constrained motion. The dimension of this reduced system is
precisely 2*(dimension of the configuration space - number of
constraints).
We are not talking about constraints. We are talking about very specific object "virtual" constraints, which are not related to mechanical constraints. And such analogies do not work.

When we endeavoured to formalize a definition of VHC, our aim was to
mimic as much as possible the above features, but we never claimed that
our notion would produce the universe of all stabilizable configuration
trajectories of a controlled mechanical system. 
* You guys made a mistake. If you wanted to introduce the definition, you could use "VHC of Maggiore type".

In the author's argument, there is a surface h(q)=0, where 0 is a
regular value of h (at least in the example!), whose tangent bundle
(let's call it constraint
manifold) is *not* controlled invariant. The tangent map of h, i.e.,
the pair (h(q), dh_q \dot q), is then used
to produce "transverse coordinates" for the linearization along a
*specific* state trajectory. 
Since controlled invariance does not hold, the constraint manifold will not be the union of trajectories of the
controlled mechanical system. 
I don't understand why do you wich every set to be a manifold. There is a set of phase space which contains a "union of trajectories".

However, there might be one (or some?) trajectory that is entirely contained in it. The conditions reviewed
by the author are rather specific and concern the existence of *one* controlled trajectory on the constraint manifold.
- Altough I demonstrated stabilizability of a singule trajectory, in fact, all the trajectories are stabilzabile.

If this is the framework that the author has in mind, why should we
call h(q)=0 a VHC?
- Because it allows to discover a huge set of new solutions.

How does it relate to the notion of a holonomic constraint in Mechanics given that it allows situations where there is
only one feasible trajectory?
- 1. Forget about mechanics and all the analogies. 2. In the paper I underscore several times, that there is a broad class of such solutions.

In the author's setup, we are not allowed to change the initial velocity of the configuration trajectory
satisfying the constraint.
- This is not correct, where did you get it?

If we did change the initial velocity, the
solution will not satisfy the constraint anymore, no matter what control we chose.
- No, it will

Again, why should this be called a virtual holonomic constraint?

I encourage the author to pursue his ideas further. As far as this paper is concerned, the main message is unclear.
